#room: memoeries of the chrismas past
topic: Memory corruption

#objectives
    Understand how specific languages may not handle memory safely.
    Understand how variables might overflow into adjacent memory and corrupt it.
    Exploit a simple buffer overflow to directly change memory you are not supposed to access.
    
#The Game

In this game, you'll play as CatOrMouse. Your objective is to save Christmas by buying the star for your Christmas tree from Van Frosty. In addition to the star, you can buy as many ornaments as you can carry to decorate your tree. To gain money to buy things, you can use the computer to do online freelance programming jobs.

You can also speak to Van Holly to change your name for a fee of 1 coin per character. He says that this is totally not a scam. He will actually start calling you by your new name. He is, after all, into identity management.
    
  
#observation
  van jolly observed some weird behaviours while playing the game. They think the Ghost of Christmas Past is haunting it.

McHoneyBell asks them to reproduce what they saw. Van Jolly boots up the game and does the following (which i did myself):

    Use the computer until you get 13 coins.
    Ask Van Holly to change your name to scroogerocks!
    Suddenly, you have 33 coins out of nowhere.

Van Jolly explains that when you change your name to anything large enough, the game goes nuts! Sometimes, you'll get random items in your inventory. Or, your coins just disappear. Even the dialogues can stop working and show random gibberish. This must surely be the work of magic!


#Memory corruption
   Remember that whenever we execute a program (this game included), all data will be processed somehow through the computer's RAM (random access memory). In this videogame, your coin count, inventory, position, movement speed, and direction are all stored somewhere in the memory and updated as needed as the game goes on.
   But what happens if we can indirectly change the contents of the memory space that holds the coin count? 
   
  What if the game had a flaw that allows you to overwrite pieces of memory you are not supposed to?  is this what is going on with the game?
  
#lets see!

changing the name again to aaaabbbbccccx resulted in having 120 coins from 13 , which other wise would have been zero since to change a name we are charged a coin per character and the name has 13 of theM,hUH!

#OKAY EXPLANATION
coin and player_name variables has adjacent memory space. player_name variable only has room to accommodate 12 bytes of information.thus a byte per character so "aaaabbbbccccx" has 13 and the 13th character which coressponds to a byte overflows or overwrite the first byte of the coin memory location

#ROOT PRoblem?
The game doesn't check if the player_name variable has enough space to store the new name. Instead, it keeps writing to adjacent memory, overwriting the values of other variables. This vulnerability is known as a buffer overflow and can be used to corrupt memory right next to the vulnerable variable.

Buffer overflows occur in some programming languages, mostly C and C++, where the variables' boundaries aren't strict. If programmers don't check the boundaries themselves, it's possible to abuse a variable to read or write memory beyond the space initially reserved for it. The game was was written in C (said thm).


#SOLUTION?
The game should check the size of a variable before writing to it.


#exploitation
in this game i managed to get a star that was represented with an ascii charater 'd' in memory ,store in inv_items variable.The was made such that anyone should never ever get the star. this was however by corrupting the memory by updating the player_name variable value to 'aaaaaaaaaaaabeefaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa1234d' as my payload
Since the name was too big for its 12 bytes variable and the game was written in c which doesnt restrict memory boundaries,the payload overwrites the inv_items variable value and the 'd' at the end of the payload ended up in the variable granting me a star which i shouldnt have


#risk impact
now this is just a game but imagine if it a shop store , an e-commerce application e.t.c.An attacker would update the email address, password, account balance,and other variables that he should never be able to have access to and manipulate.

#lesson  
for languages that doesnt restrict memory boundaries like C and C++ unlike java, always check the variable size before updating